BEP  
54

Title  
The lt_donthave extension

Version  
\$Revision\$

Last-Modified  
\$Date\$

Author  
Juliusz Chroboczek \<<jch@irif.fr>\>

Status  
Draft

Type  
Standards Track

Requires  
10

Content-Type  
text/x-rst

Created  
19-Jul-2018

Post-History  
19-Jul-2018: initial version.

# Abstract

This document describes the *lt_donthave* extension which allows a peer to advertise that it no longer has a piece, and thus to renege on a previous *Have* or *Bitfield* message.

# Introduction

The BitTorrent protocol relies on nodes having knowledge of the pieces available at their peers; such knowledge is advertised using the *BitField* and *Have* messages of the core protocol. However, the protocol has no way to advertise that a piece is no longer available: if a node drops a piece that it has previously advertised, for example due to a resource shortage or to expiry of a LRU cache, then the only way to cause its peers to resynchronise with the new state is to close peer connections.

This document describes a simple extension that allows a node to announce that a previously advertised piece is no longer available. Implementation of the receiver side of this extension is recommended; implementation of the sender side is only useful for implementations that routinely discard pieces of active torrents.

# Protocol encoding

The availability of this extension is negotiated during the extended handshake of the Extension Protocol[^1]. The name of the extension is *lt_donthave*. The extension is negotiated independently in both directions: a peer may send a *DontHave* message even if it hasn't itself advertised support for the *lt_donthave* extension, and a peer that has advertised support for the *lt_donthave* extension must be able to receive *DontHave* messages from a peer that hasn't advertised support.

The extension consists of a single message:

    DontHave: <len=0x0006><op=20><subop=xx><index>

*Op* is 20, indicating an extended message. *Subop* is the suboperation number, as advertised by the peer during the extended handshake. *Index* is the four-byte index of the piece that is no longer available at the sender.

# Protocol operation

The protocol operation is slightly different depending on whether the *Fast* extension[^2] has been successfully negotiated with a given peer or not. Use of the *Fast* extension is recommended.

## Sender operation

When the local node discards a piece with index *n*, it sends a *DontHave* message for that piece to every peer that has advertised support for the *lt_donthave* extension and to which it has previously advertised the piece (using either a *BitField* or a *Have* message).

If the *Fast* extension has not been negotiated with the peer, then any outstanding requests for a chunk of the piece that has been discarded are silently dropped, and any further requests for chunks of that piece are silently dropped. If the *Fast* extension has been negotiated, then any outstanding requests for a chunk of the discarded piece are rejected using a *Reject Request* message, and any further requests for chunks of that piece are rejected using a *Reject Request* message.

## Receiver operation

When the local node receives a *DontHave* message with index *n*, it marks the piece as unavailable at the sending peer.

If the *Fast* extension has not been negotiated with the sending peer, then any outstanding requests for chunks of the discarded piece are silently cancelled, just like when receiving a *Choke* message. If the *Fast* extension has been negotiated, no requests are silently cancelled: the peer will explicitly reject any such requests, as usual.

# Acknowledgements

The protocol described in this document was designed by Arvid Norberg.

# References

# Copyright

This document is in the public domain.

[^1]: BEP_0010. Extension Protocol. (<http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0010.html>)

[^2]: BEP_0006. Fast Extension. (<http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0006.html>)
