BEP  
53

Title  
Magnet URI extension - Select specific file indices for download

Version  
\$Revision\$

Last-Modified  
\$Date\$

Author  
Tyler Houlihan \<<tchoulihan@gmail.com>\>

Status  
Draft

Type  
Standards Track

Content-Type  
text/x-rst

Created  
24-May-2017

Post-History  

# Abstract

This magnet extension introduces the concept of an optional *select-only* file index array in the magnet URI, so that torrent clients can automatically select specific file(s) for download after the metadata has been downloaded.

# Rationale

This extension would allow clients to know which specific file(s) within a torrent they should download, before the metadata has been downloaded. In particular it would allow for creating "deep links" to a specific file, folder, or subset of files within a torrent. A server could then host a magnet link, referring to that specific file or subset of files they wish to serve. This would be particularly useful for library torrents.

This extension would add an *optional* array of file indices to the magnet link.

# URI extension

The new URI format would contain the following:

`magnet:?xt=urn:btih:HASH&dn=NAME&tr=TRACKER&so=0,2,4,6-8`

- `so=0,2,4,6-8` means *select only*, and the numbers are the file indices. Files are zero-indexed. Dashes mean inclusive ranges, so 6,7, and 8 are also added.

Special case: What if the magnet link is already added?

Torrent clients that already have added that torrent should add any currently not-downloading file indices, and set their priority to normal.

# References

# Copyright

This document has been placed in the public domain.

## 

> Local Variables: mode: indented-text indent-tabs-mode: nil sentence-end-double-space: t fill-column: 70 coding: utf-8 End:
