BEP  
37

Title  
Anonymous BitTorrent over proxies

Version  
\$Revision\$

Last-Modified  
\$Date\$

Author  
Arvid Norberg \<<arvid@bittorrent.com>\>

Status  
Draft

Type  
Informational

Created  
15-October-2012

Post-History  

# Abstract

This BEP aims to provide recommendations for BitTorrent clients using proxies for the purpose of obfuscating the origin of its traffic. It primarily focuses on ways to inadvertantly leak information that could aid an adversary in discovering the origin.

# Setup

For the purposes of this BEP, the assumption is that the user of the bittorrent client attempts to remain anonymous. This is attempted by by configuring the client to use a proxy, running on a 3rd party machine, or running over [Tor](http://www.tor.org).

This use case is especially important when BitTorrent is being used to distribute sensitive information where the originator or anyone participating in the swarm may risk reprisals. Such anonymity is critical where political and religious speech is threatened.

It is the author's hope that this document will be updated as new potential information leaks of the BitTorrent protocol are discovered.

Thie BEP essentially describes the semantics of the `anonymous_mode` settings in [uTorrent](www.utorrent.com) and [libtorrent](www.libtorrent.org).

# Information leaks

One way for an attacker to identify the true origin of a bittorrent client using a proxy is to look for hints in the data the client is sending. This could include anything from the specific version of software is being used, the peer ID that's advertized to listen port numbers.

This section will cover specific pieces of the BitTorrent protocol that could be used in such attacks, that client authors may want to restrict when using proxies.

Each sub section has a recommended mitigation. It is meant to be applied only in scenarios where the user is attempting to remain anonymous. Which using a proxy may be a good indicator of.

## software version

BitTorrent client often encode what software its running in the peer ID advertised in the BitTorrent handshake (see [BEP20](bep_0020.html)). It's also commonly exchanged as part of the extended handshake (see [BEP10](bep_0010.html)), where a free-form string representation of the client name and version is exchanged.

If the client, or the specific version of it, the user is running is rare, an attacker may use that to narrow down the set of potential users that may be on the other end of a certain peer connection.

For instance, it's possible that the orignal download of the client, or auto-updates of the client do not happen over an anonymized network. Hence, it cannot be ruled out that an adversary can eaves drop on who downloaded which version of the software.

*uTorrent includes its build number in the version advertises in the peer ID, making it more unique.*

*uTorrent does not use proxy settings when checking for auto-updates and downloading new versions, because it's considered a risk to fail updates.*

The recommendation is to **not** send the `"v"` key in the extended handshake and to not encode client version in the peer ID.

## peer ID

The peer ID as a 20 byte identifier which is supposed to be unique to a specific BitTorrent peer. This ID was thought to be useful when the protocol was designed, but turned out to be redundant and is typically not used for anything other than detecting whether a client connected to itself.

The BitTorrent specification ([BEP3](bep_0003.html)) indicates that the peer ID is persistent throughout the dowload of one torrent. In practice, it is common for clients to generate a single peer ID and use it for all torrents. The peer ID may even be persisted across sessions.

Using the same peer ID on multiple swarms leaks information about participation in other swarms. The adversary could correlate a peer ID to other swarms. This exposes the risk that one of those swarms may at some point be joind without the proxy running, and the user's true IP is given out. An adversary could also narrow down its possibilities by simply analyzing which other swarms the victim participates in.

Simply analyzing swarms may narrow down locale and cultural associations, with other content.

The recommendation is to always send a random peer ID, to both trackers and other peers.

## IP and port in extended handshake

As part of the extended handshake, some clients advertise their listen port and alternative IP address. The purpose of this it to let the other end be able to connect back if the connection is broken for some reason.

The alternative IP is typically and IPv6 address, when connecting over IPv4 and vice versa. (See [BEP10](bep_0010.html)).

Clearly sending the actual IP address as part of the message gives away the user. It's also important to note that the port (`p`) could pose a threat if it is persistent ([listen port](#listen-port)).

The recommendation is to never send `ipv4` and the `ipv6` fields in the extended header. Don't send `p` unless it refers to the proxy's listen port.

## listen port

A popular feature among clients is to generate a random port on first start, and then save that port for using in subsequent sessions.

This poses a similar threat as a persistent peer ID. The port space typically used is the upper 10 or 20 thousand ports or so. This makes the port picked by your client fairly unique. If the same port is used consistently, the same kinds of correlations can be made as with the [peer ID](#peer-id).

The recommendation is to generate a new random listen port for every session. Don't advertise your listen port in the extended handshake, unless it refers to the listen port on the proxy. The listen port used on the proxy should be randomized on every startup.

## DHT port

As part of the BitTorrent extension to support DHT, peers send a `dht port`-message after handshake, to inform the other peer that it is participating in the DHT on the specified port.

The DHT typically uses the same port as the bittorrent engine's listen port. The DHT listen port can provide similar correlations as the bittorent engine's [listen port](#listen-port).

The recommendation is to not send the DHT listen port message, unless it refers to the listen port opened on the proxy.

## tracker IP argument

Some clients supports an extension to the HTTP tracker protocol involving sending `&ipv4=`, `&ipv6=` and `&ip=` arguments. These intend to work as hints for the tracker in order to more easily connect IPv4 and IPv6 peers on the same swarm.

The `&ip=` argument is not specific to HTTP trackers, but exist on UDP trackers as well. These fields could concievably be used by and adversary to find the true IP address of the client.

The recommendation is to never send either of `&ip=`, `&IPv4=` or `&IPv6=` to any tracker, and to not send the `ip` field to UDP trackers.

## unsupported proxy protocols

When using a proxy, it is very common for the proxy to only support a limited subset of types of traffic. For instance, an HTTP tracker may only support HTTP requests, and will never support UDP circuits. They may support arbitrary TCP via the CONNECT method.

The SOCKS5 protocol supports UDP and incoming connections, but most popular implementations have no to poor support of these features.

It is important that the client never circumvents the proxy for traffic that otherwise would not be supported. If the user has indicated it would like to remain anonymous, not working is better than leaking information.

The recommendation is to simply drop all UDP traffic when using an HTTP or SOCKS4 proxy. UDP trackers, DHT and uTP will simply not work. Attempt to accept incoming connections over SOCKS5, but expect it to fail. Don't fall back to accepting connections locally. Attempt to set up a UDP tunnel with SOCKS5, but expect to fail.

## incoming connections

When routing all traffic through a proxy, a client may still accept incoming connections from other peers (it's just that no peer would know about its IP).

An adversary may try to connect to the client on its public IP however. For instance, if the adversary can limit the possible IPs the victim is behind to some reasonably small number, all of them could simply be contacted until the victim computer is found.

The recommendation, don't accept incoming connections other than via the proxy. If incoming connections are supported at all, it's likely a SOCKS5 proxy and all incoming connections are actually initiated as outgoing ones. In such case, there is no need for a listen socket at all. Don't accept any DHT packets, unless it comes from the proxy.

## Local peer discovery

Local peer discovery involves joining a multi-cast group and advertising which torrents one is interested in or seeding.

IP multicast does not have an inherent restriction to not leave an internet subscriber's home. There are networks where multicast is allowed across an entire campus for instance. Broadcasting which torrents one is downloading to an undefined, and potentially large set of computers is risky.

The recommendation is to disable local peer discovery.

## port forwarding

Even if incoming connections are rejected, an adversary may be able to tell whether a certain port is open on a router and closed on the internal computer. For example by examining the ICMP response from trying to contact the open port and a port that is assumed to be closed. The computer running the client may behave differently from the NAT. There may also be an opportunity for identifying differences in timing of the responses.

An adversary could use such technique by pinning a specific [listen port](#listen-port) to a specific (or a small number) of IPs.

The recommendation is to not forward any ports, since it's not necessary anyway.

# Copyright

This document has been placed in the public domain.

### 

> Local Variables: mode: indented-text indent-tabs-mode: nil sentence-end-double-space: t fill-column: 70 coding: utf-8 End:
